Question 1 – Explanation After Every Command

mkdir Question1
This command created a new directory named Question1 to store all files related to the first question. The folder was created successfully.

cd Question1
This command changed the current working directory to the Question1 folder. I was then able to create files inside this directory.

mkdir submissions
This command created a submissions folder to store sample student assignment files. The directory was created successfully.

cd submissions
This command entered the submissions folder. I could now create sample submission files inside it.

echo "Assignment by Student1" > student1.txt
This command created student1.txt and stored sample assignment content in it. The file was created successfully.

cp student1.txt student2.txt
This command copied student1.txt to student2.txt, creating a duplicate submission. The duplicate file was successfully created.

echo "Assignment by Student3" > student3.txt
This command created another unique submission file named student3.txt. The file was stored successfully.

ls
This command listed all files in the current directory. I verified that all sample submission files were present.

cd ..
This command moved back to the Question1 directory. I was then ready to continue the remaining tasks.

mkdir backup
This command created a backup folder for storing unique submission files. The directory was created successfully.

nano duplicate_check.sh
This command opened the Nano editor to create the shell script. I wrote and saved the script successfully.

chmod +x duplicate_check.sh
This command gave execute permission to the shell script. The script became executable.

./duplicate_check.sh
This command executed the shell script. It detected duplicate files, backed up unique files, and generated report and error files.

cat report.txt
This command displayed the generated report. I verified the number of processed, duplicate, and backed-up files.

cat errors.txt
This command displayed the error log. Since no errors occurred, the file was empty.

ls backup
This command listed the contents of the backup folder. I verified that only unique files were backed up.
